README.md, before:

# EXAM: Java Basics

### Getting Started
 - Fork this repository under your own account
 - Clone the forked repository to your computer
 - Commit your progress frequently and with descriptive commit messages
 - All your answers and solutions should go in this repository

### What can I use?
 - You can use any resource online, but **please work individually**
 - Instead of copy-pasting your answers and solutions, write them in your own words.

# Tasks
## 1. Setup a new project (~5 mins) [5p]
- Create a new project inside your cloned repository
- Setup `.gitignore` file to exclude the IDE's generated files
    - Just the src directory should be committed
- Create a package called `com.greenfox.exams.java` and work under that

## 2. The BlackJack Application (~90 mins) [15p]
The task is to create a `BlackJack` application where a `user` `Player` can play BlackJack with the `house` `Player`. The game should have a very simple graphical user interface with two labels (one for the user and one for the house) and two buttons for draw and for resetting the game.

![Start](bj_start.png)

When a new game started a new `Deck` should be generated with 52 randomly ordered `Card`s in it.
When the user hits the `drawCard` button the top card of the deck should be added to the users `played` cards. If the house's played cards sum is under 17 it will draw automatically. After drawing the labels should be updated.

One card drawn:

![Round one](bj_1.png)

Two cards drawn:

![Round two](bj_2.png)

**Layout is not important just put everything in one JPanel with the default layout (no need to change that)**

When the user hits the `reset` button, a new Deck should be generated and players should be reset as well.

### Information on the elements
- Tests will be run on your code
    - use names in the code whats used in the description
    - don't use visibility on fields
    - don't use accent in strings or in comments
    - otherwise tests will fail probably
- The `BlackJack`
    - should be a `JPanel`
    - should have two buttons, a `user` and a `house` `Player`s and a `deck`
    - should handle the button actions in one method
- The `Deck`
    - should contain two lists: `cards` and `used`, all cards should be in the cards list and after used it should go in to the used list.
    - you can use the `Collection.shuffle(list)` for shuffling the deck
    - if all cards are used `null` should be returned when drawing from the deck
- The `Card`
    - should have a color and a value
    - should have a getter for the value
    - should be displayed as `"color value"` eg. `"karo 7"`
- The `Player`
    - should have a name
    - should have a list where it stores its `played` cards
    - should be able to `sum` the value of its played cards
    - should be able to `add` a new card to its played cards
    - should be added to the panel and displayed as shown: `"Name played: color value..."` eg. `"User played: kor 7 karo 4 "`
- In your main method
    - create a JFrame
    - add BlackJack panel to it
    - make it visible

### Acceptance criteria
The application is accepted if:
- All tests pass
- You can check your results here: http://gf-exam.mobil.ninja/
    - In order to register your work you have to create a Pull Request on Github
    - Go to your forked repo (https://github.com/yourname/zerda-java-basics)
    - Click `New pull request`
    - Then `Create pull request`
    - After the pull request created your every commit will be evaluated on the site
    - You can check your results

## 3. Understand the code (~10 mins) [4p]
```java
class Apple {
  public int add(int a, int b) {
    return 5;
  }

  public int max_of_three(int a, int b, int c) {
    if (a > b) {
      return a;
    }
    return c;
  }
}

class TestApple {
  public void testAdd() {
    assertEquals(5, Apple.add(2, 3));
  }

  public void testMax() {
    assertEquals(5, Apple.max_of_three(3, 4, 5));
  }
}
```

Are the tests passing? Detail your answer! [2p] Fix the situation! [2p]

#### Explain what you did, and answer the questions here:


## 4. Question time! (~20 mins) [6p]

### Where the abstract class is useful? [2p]
#### Your answer:

### Describe a method! Show the necessary parts and how are them called! [2p]
#### Your answer:

### What is the constructor? When it is used? [2p]
#### Your answer:

Commit message:

readme updated with answers to questions 3 and 4

README.md, after:

# EXAM: Java Basics

### Getting Started
 - Fork this repository under your own account
 - Clone the forked repository to your computer
 - Commit your progress frequently and with descriptive commit messages
 - All your answers and solutions should go in this repository

### What can I use?
 - You can use any resource online, but **please work individually**
 - Instead of copy-pasting your answers and solutions, write them in your own words.

# Tasks
## 1. Setup a new project (~5 mins) [5p]
- Create a new project inside your cloned repository
- Setup `.gitignore` file to exclude the IDE's generated files
    - Just the src directory should be committed
- Create a package called `com.greenfox.exams.java` and work under that

## 2. The BlackJack Application (~90 mins) [15p]
The task is to create a `BlackJack` application where a `user` `Player` can play BlackJack with the `house` `Player`. The game should have a very simple graphical user interface with two labels (one for the user and one for the house) and two buttons for draw and for resetting the game.

![Start](bj_start.png)

When a new game started a new `Deck` should be generated with 52 randomly ordered `Card`s in it.
When the user hits the `drawCard` button the top card of the deck should be added to the users `played` cards. If the house's played cards sum is under 17 it will draw automatically. After drawing the labels should be updated.

One card drawn:

![Round one](bj_1.png)

Two cards drawn:

![Round two](bj_2.png)

**Layout is not important just put everything in one JPanel with the default layout (no need to change that)**

When the user hits the `reset` button, a new Deck should be generated and players should be reset as well.

### Information on the elements
- Tests will be run on your code
    - use names in the code whats used in the description
    - don't use visibility on fields
    - don't use accent in strings or in comments
    - otherwise tests will fail probably
- The `BlackJack`
    - should be a `JPanel`
    - should have two buttons, a `user` and a `house` `Player`s and a `deck`
    - should handle the button actions in one method
- The `Deck`
    - should contain two lists: `cards` and `used`, all cards should be in the cards list and after used it should go in to the used list.
    - you can use the `Collection.shuffle(list)` for shuffling the deck
    - if all cards are used `null` should be returned when drawing from the deck
- The `Card`
    - should have a color and a value
    - should have a getter for the value
    - should be displayed as `"color value"` eg. `"karo 7"`
- The `Player`
    - should have a name
    - should have a list where it stores its `played` cards
    - should be able to `sum` the value of its played cards
    - should be able to `add` a new card to its played cards
    - should be added to the panel and displayed as shown: `"Name played: color value..."` eg. `"User played: kor 7 karo 4 "`
- In your main method
    - create a JFrame
    - add BlackJack panel to it
    - make it visible

### Acceptance criteria
The application is accepted if:
- All tests pass
- You can check your results here: http://gf-exam.mobil.ninja/
    - In order to register your work you have to create a Pull Request on Github
    - Go to your forked repo (https://github.com/yourname/zerda-java-basics)
    - Click `New pull request`
    - Then `Create pull request`
    - After the pull request created your every commit will be evaluated on the site
    - You can check your results

## 3. Understand the code (~10 mins) [4p]
```java
class Apple {
  public int add(int a, int b) {
    return 5;
  }

  public int max_of_three(int a, int b, int c) {
    if (a > b) {
      return a;
    }
    return c;
  }
}

class TestApple {
  public void testAdd() {
    assertEquals(5, Apple.add(2, 3));
  }

  public void testMax() {
    assertEquals(5, Apple.max_of_three(3, 4, 5));
  }
}
```

Are the tests passing? Detail your answer! [2p] Fix the situation! [2p]


#### Explain what you did, and answer the questions here:

These tests cannot be run, because, the Apple class is not initialized in TestApple.
To fix this, we can make Apple's methods static, this way the tests can be run without an instance of Apple.
The "@Test" tags should also be put before the test methods, in order for JUnit to run them correctly.
With these fixes, the tests will run and pass even though the methods of Apple are nonsense but they will return 5 in both cases.

## 4. Question time! (~20 mins) [6p]

### Where is the abstract class useful? [2p]
#### Your answer:
Abstract classes are similar to interfaces in that they cannot be instanciated, however they can contain fields and methods (with or without implementation).
Unlike interfaces, abstract classes can have fields that are not static and final and methods that are not public.
This is useful when there are several classes that share fields and/or have methods that modify fields in an instance of these classes.

### Describe a method! Show the necessary parts and how are them called! [2p]
#### Your answer:
A method is a collection of statements to perform a specific function. It's syntax looks like this:

modifier returnType nameOfMethod (Parameter List) {
   // method body
}

modifiers define access type (such as public, private, protected or static)
returnType defines the type of value the method returns (can be void)
nameOfMethod is the name of the method
parameter list defines the types and order of parameters in the method (may contain no parameters)
the method body defines what the method does

### What is the constructor? When it is used? [2p]
#### Your answer:
A constructor looks like a method where there is no return type and has the name of the class it is found in.
It is used to create an Object, which is an instance of the class the constructor belongs to.
